---
layout: post
title:  "Climate Change AR/VR : Week 10 updates"
date:   2019-10-30 12:00:01 +0530
categories: jekyll update
---

# Progress
Significant progress has been made in the scanning using the Leica BLK 360 and HP Sprout.
Detailed Notes on how to perform point cloud scans using the BLK 360 can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hVOLvVp5R9FDLNbm_gxFJZ2TWoKyeJRA4KfMy_0f0yM/edit#heading=h.ob3ac5e4t1i7).

The HP Sprout is used to capture 3D models of small objects, ideal the dimension of a shoe or coffee cup. The following [report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18Tmtqm_MXiLC3z9aFEos3ASYin1Fz-kYu0R6QUjvyNI/edit?usp=sharing) contains some of the issues encountered with the scanned objects. 

The Caribou Diorama was rendered in Unreal. We created a fly Asset which hovers around the caribou to highlight the climate effect on the caribou. This entire scene was visualized in VR. 
Multiple scans where taken around USC and we could successfully visualize the Cinematic School Entrance in VR. 

The AR team created a tabletop tiger with selectable environment elements. A sample forest portal was created in AR to demonstrate the AR immersion into the caribou environment. 

# Challenges
The challenges encountered are highlighted in the above-mentioned notes. A significant issue we encountered was the quality loss gained my moving the original point cloud rendering to Unreal. The portal landing position needed some adjustments in order to make sure it was perfectly aligned with the surface.  
# Next Steps

The action items for the next week.
 
- Optimization of the AR experience.

- Bug Fixes in the AR.
